The terror, which would not end for another twenty-eight years — if it ever did end — began,
so far as I know or can tell, with a boat made from a sheet of newspaper floating down a
gutter swollen with rain.
 The boat bobbed, listed, righted itself again, dived bravely through treacherous whirlpools,
and continued on its way down Witcham Street toward the traffic light which marked the
intersection of Witcham and Jackson. The three vertical lenses on all sides of the traffic light
were dark this afternoon in the fall of 1957, and the houses were all dark, too. There had been
steady rain for a week now, and two days ago the winds had come as well. Most sections of
Derry had lost their power then, and it was not back on yet.
 A small boy in a yellow slicker and red galoshes ran cheerfully along beside the newspaper
boat. The rain had not stopped, but it was finally slackening. It tapped on the yellow hood of
the boy's slicker, sounding to his ears like rain on a shed roof . . . a comfortable, almost cozy
sound. The boy in the yellow slicker was George Denbrough. He was six. His brother,
William, known to most of the kids at Derry Elementary School (and even to the teachers,
who would never have used the nickname to his face) as Stuttering Bill, was at home,
hacking out the last of a nasty case of influenza. In that autumn of 1957, eight months before
the real horrors began and twenty-eight years before the final showdown, Stuttering Bill was
ten years old.
 Bill had made the boat beside which George now ran. He had made it sitting up in bed, his
back propped against a pile of pillows, while their mother played Für Elise on the piano in
the parlor and rain swept restlessly against his bedroom window.
 About three-quarters of the way down the block as one headed toward the intersection and
the dead traffic light, Witcham Street was blocked to motor traffic by smudgepots and four
orange sawhorses. Stencilled across each of the horses was DERRY DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Beyond them, the rain had spilled out of gutters clogged with branches and rocks and big
sticky piles of autumn leaves. The water had first pried fingerholds in the paving and then
snatched whole greedy handfuls — all of this by the third day of the rains. By noon of the
fourth day, big chunks of the street's surface were boating through the intersection of Jackson
and Witcham like miniature white-water rafts. By that time, many people in Derry had begun
to make nervous jokes about arks. The Public Works Department had managed to keep
Jackson Street open, but Witcham was impassable from the sawhorses all the way to the
center of town.
 But, everyone agreed, the worst was over. The Kenduskeag Stream had crested just below
its banks in the Barrens and bare inches below the concrete sides of the Canal which
channelled it tightly as it passed through downtown. Right now a gang of men — Zack
Denbrough, George's and Bill's father, among them — were removing the sandbags they had
thrown up the day before with such panicky haste. Yesterday overflow and expensive flood
damage had seemed almost inevitable. God knew it had happened before — the flooding in
1931 had been a disaster which had cost millions of dollars and almost two dozen lives. That
was a long time ago, but there were still enough people around who remembered it to scare
the rest. One of the flood victims had been found twenty-five miles east, in Bucksport. The
fish had eaten this unfortunate gentleman's eyes, three of his fingers, his penis, and most of
his left foot. Clutched in what remained of his hands had been a Ford steering wheel.
 Now, though, the river was receding, and when the new Bangor Hydro dam went in
upstream, the river would cease to be a threat. Or so said Zack Denbrough, who worked for
Bangor Hydroelectric. As for the rest — well, future floods could take care of themselves.
The thing was to get through this one, to get the power back on, and then to forget it. In Derry
such forgetting of tragedy and disaster was almost an art, as Bill Denbrough would come to
discover in the course of time.
 George paused just beyond the sawhorses at the edge of a deep ravine that had been cut
through the tar surface of Witcham Street. This ravine ran on an almost exact diagonal. It
ended on the far side of the street, roughly forty feet farther down the hill from where he now
stood, on the right. He laughed aloud — the sound of solitary, childish glee a bright runner in
that gray afternoon — as a vagary of the flowing water took his paper boat into a scale -model
rapids which had been formed by the break in the tar. The urgent water had cut a channel
which ran along the diagonal, and so his boat travelled from one side of Witcham Street to
the other, the current carrying it so fast that George had to sprint to keep up with it. Water
sprayed out from beneath his galoshes in muddy sheets. Their buckles made a jolly jingling
as George Denbrough ran toward his strange death. And the feeling which filled him at that
moment was clear and simple love for his brother Bill . . . love and a touch of regret that Bill
couldn't be here to see this and be a part of it. Of course he would try to describe it to Bill
when he got home, but he knew he wouldn't be able to make Bill see it, the way Bill would
have been able to make him see it if their positions had been reversed. Bill was good at
reading and writing, but even at his age George was wise enough to know that wasn't the only
reason why Bill got all A's on his report cards, or why his teachers liked his compositions so
well. Telling was only part of it. Bill was good at seeing.
 The boat nearly whistled along the diagonal channel, just a page torn from the Classified
section of the Derry News, but now George imagined it as a FT boat in a war movie, like the
ones he sometimes saw down at the Derry Theater with Bill at Saturday matinees. A war
picture with John Wayne fighting the Japs. The prow of the newspaper boat threw sprays of
water to either side as it rushed along, and then it reached the gutter on the left side of
Witcham Street. A fresh streamlet rushed over the break in the tar at this point, creating a
fairly large whirlpool, and it seemed to him that the boat must be swamped and capsize. It
leaned alarmingly, and then George cheered as it righted itself, turned, and went racing on
down toward the intersection. George sprinted to catch up. Over his head, a grim gust of
October wind rattled the trees, now almost completely unburdened of their freight of colored
leaves by the storm, which had been this year a reaper of the most ruthless sort.
2
Sitting up in bed, his cheeks still flushed with heat (but his fever, like the Kenduskeag, finally
receding), Bill had finished the boat — but when George reached for it, Bill held it out of
reach. 'N-Now get me the p-p-paraffin.'
 'What's that? Where is it?'
 'It's on the cellar shuh-shuh-shelf as you go d-downstairs,' Bill said. 'In a box that says
Guh-Guh-hulf . . . Gulf. Bring that to me, and a knife, and a b-bowl. And a puh-pack of muhmuh-matches.'
 George had gone obediently to get these things. He could hear his mother playing the
piano, not Für Elise now but something else he didn't like so well — something that sounded
dry and fussy; he could hear rain flicking steadily against the kitchen windows. These were
comfortable sounds, but the thought of the cellar was not a bit comfortable. He did not like
the cellar, and he did not like going down the cellar stairs, because he always imagined there
was something down there in the dark. That was silly, of course, his father said so and his
mother said so and, even more important, Bill said so, but still —
 He did not even like opening the door to flick on the light because he always had the idea
— this was so exquisitely stupid he didn't dare tell anyone — that while he was feeling for
the light switch, some horrible clawed paw would settle lightly over his wrist . . . and then
jerk him down into the darkness that smelled of dirt and wet and dim rotted vegetables.
 Stupid! There were no things with claws, all hairy and full of killing spite. Every now and
then someone went crazy and killed a lot of people — sometimes Chet Huntley told about
such things on the evening news — and of course there were Commies, but there was no
weirdo monster living down in their cellar. Still, this idea lingered. In those interminable
moments while he was groping for the switch with his right hand (his left arm curled around
the doorjamb in a deathgrip), that cellar smell seemed to intensify until it filled the world.
Smells of dirt and wet and long-gone vegetables would merge into one unmistakable
ineluctable smell, the smell of the monster, the apotheosis of all monsters. It was the smell of
something for which he had no name: the smell of It, crouched and lurking and ready to
spring. A creature which would eat anything but which was especially hungry for boymeat.
 He had opened the door that morning and had groped interminably for the switch, holding
the jamb in his usual deathgrip, his eyes squinched shut, the tip of his tongue poked from the
corner of his mouth like an agonized rootlet searching for water in a place of drought. Funny?
Sure! You betcha! Lookit you, Georgie! Georgie's scared of the dark! What a baby! The
sound of the piano came from what his father called the living room and what his mother
called the parlor. It sounded like music from another world, far away, the way talk and
laughter on a summer-crowded beach must sound to an exhausted swimmer who struggles
with the undertow.
 His fingers found the switch! Ah!
 They snapped it —
 — and nothing. No light.
 Oh, cripes! The power!
 George snatched his arm back as if from a basket filled with snakes. He stepped back from
the open cellar door, his heart hurrying in his chest. The power was out, of course — he had
forgotten the power was out. Jeezly-crow! What now? Go back and tell Bill he couldn't get
the box of paraffin because the power was out and he was afraid that something might get
him as he stood on the cellar stairs, something that wasn't a Commie or a mass murderer but a
creature much worse than either? That it would simply slither part of its rotted self up
between the stair risers and grab his ankle? That would go over big, wouldn't it? Others might
laugh at such a fancy, but Bill wouldn't laugh. Bill would be mad. Bill would say, 'Grow up,
Georgie . . . do you want this boat or not?'
 As if this thought were his cue, Bill called from his bedroom: 'Did you d-d-die out there,
Juh-Georgie?'
 'No, I'm gettin it, Bill,' George called back at once. He rubbed at his arms, trying to make
the guilty gooseflesh disappear and be smooth skin again. 'I just stopped to get a drink of
water.'
 'Well, h-hurry up!'
 So he walked down the four steps to the cellar shelf, his heart a warm, beating hammer in
his throat, the hair on the nape of his neck standing at attention, his eyes hot, his hands cold,
sure that at any moment the cellar door would swing shut on its own, closing off the white
light falling through the kitchen windows, and then he would hear It, something worse than
all the Commies and murderers in the world, worse than the Japs, worse than Attila the Hun, 
worse than the somethings in a hundred horror movies. It, growling deeply — he would hear
the growl in those lunatic seconds before it pounced on him and unzipped his guts.
 The cellar-smell was worse than ever today, because of the flood. Their house was high on
Witcham Street, near the crest of the hill, and they had escaped the worst of it, but there was
still standing water down there that had seeped in through the old rock foundations. The smell
was low and unpleasant, making you want to take only the shallowest breaths.
 George sifted through the junk on the shelf as fast as he could — old cans of Kiwi
shoepolish and shoepolish rags, a broken kerosene lamp, two mostly empty bottles of
Windex, an old flat can of Turtle wax. For some reason this can struck him, and he spent
nearly thirty seconds looking at the turtle on the lid with a kind of hypnotic wonder. Then he
tossed it back . . . and here it was at last, a square box with the word GULF on it.
 George snatched it and ran up the stairs as fast as he could, suddenly aware that his shirttail
was out and suddenly sure that his shirttail would be his undoing: the thing in the cellar
would allow him to get almost all the way out, and then it would grab the tail of his shirt and
snatch him back and —
 He reached the kitchen and swept the door shut behind him. It banged gustily. He leaned
back against it with his eyes closed, sweat popped out on his arms and forehead, the box of
paraffin gripped tightly in one hand.
 The piano had come to a stop, and his mom's voice floated to him: 'Georgie, can't you slam
that door a little harder next time? Maybe you could break some of the plates in the Welsh
dresser, if you really tried.'
 'Sorry, Mom,' he called back.
 'Georgie, you waste,' Bill said from his bedroom. He pitched his voice low so their mother
would not hear.
 George snickered a little. His fear was already gone; it had slipped away from him as
easily as a nightmare slips away from a man who awakes, cold-skinned and gasping, from its
grip; who feels his body and stares at his surroundings to make sure that none of it ever
happened and who then begins at once to forget it. Half is gone by the time his feet hit the
floor; three-quarters of it by the time he emerges from the shower and begins to towel off; all
of it by the time he finishes his breakfast. All gone . . . until the next time, when, in the grip
of the nightmare, all fears will be remembered.
 That turtle, George thought, going to the counter drawer where the matches were kept.
Where did I see a turtle like that before?
 But no answer came, and he dismissed the question.
 He got a pack of matches from the drawer, a knife from the rack (holding the sharp edge
studiously away from his body, as his dad had taught him), and a small bowl from the Welsh
dresser in the dining room. Then he went back into Bill's room.
 'W-What an a-hole you are, Juh-Georgie,' Bill said, amiably enough, and pushed back
some of the sick-stuff on his nighttable: an empty glass, a pitcher of water, Kleenex, books, a
bottle of Vicks VapoRub — the smell of which Bill would associate all his life with thick,
phlegmy chests and snotty noses. The old Philco radio was there, too, playing not Chopin or
Bach but a Little Richard tune . . . very softly, however, so softly that Little Richard was
robbed of all his raw and elemental power. Their mother, who had studied classical piano at
Juilliard, hated rock and roll. She did not merely dislike it; she abominated it.
 'I'm no a-hole,' George said, sitting on the edge of Bill's bed and putting the things he had
gathered on the nighttable.
 'Yes you are,' Bill said. 'Nothing but a great big brown a-hole, that's you.'
 George tried to imagine a kid who was nothing but a great big a-hole on legs and began to
giggle.
 'Your a-hole is bigger than Augusta,' Bill said, beginning to giggle, too.
 'Four a-hole is bigger than the whole state,' George replied. This broke both boys up for
nearly two minutes.
 There followed a whispered conversation of the sort which means very little to anyone
save small boys: accusations of who was the biggest a-hole, who had the biggest a-hole,
which a-hole was the brownest, and so on. Finally Bill said one of the forbidden words — he
accused George of being a big brown shitty a-hole — and they both got laughing hard. Bill's
laughter turned into a coughing fit. As it finally began to taper off (by then Bill's face had
gone a plummy shade which George regarded with some alarm), the piano stopped again.
They both looked in the direction of the parlor, listening for the piano-bench to scrape back,
listening for their mother's impatient footsteps. Bill buried his mouth in the crook of his
elbow, stifling the last of the coughs, pointing at the pitcher at the same time. George poured
him a glass of water, which he drank off.
 The piano began once more — Für Elise again. Stuttering Bill never forgot that piece, and
even many years later it never failed to bring gooseflesh to his arms and back; his heart
would drop and he would remember: My mother was playing that the day Georgie died.
 'You gonna cough anymore, Bill?'
 'No.'
 Bill pulled a Kleenex from the box, made a rumbling sound in his chest, spat phlegm into
the tissue, screwed it up, and tossed it into the wastebasket by his bed, which was filled with
similar twists of tissue. Then he opened the box of paraffin and dropped a waxy cube of the
stuff into his palm. George watched him closely, but without speaking or questioning. Bill
didn't like George talking to him while he did stuff, but George had learned that if he just
kept his mouth shut, Bill would usually explain what he was doing.
 Bill used the knife to cut off a small piece of the paraffin cube. He put the piece in the
bowl, then struck a match and put it on top of the paraffin. The two boys watched the small
yellow flame as the dying wind drove rain against the window in occasional spatters.
 'Got to waterproof the boat or it'll just get wet and sink,' Bill said. When he was with
George, his stutter was light — sometimes he didn't stutter at all. In school, however, it could
become so bad that talking became impossible for him. Communication would cease and
Bill's schoolmates would look somewhere else while Bill clutched the sides of his desk, his
face growing almost as red as his hair, his eyes squeezed into slits as he tried to winch some
word out of his stubborn throat. Sometimes — most times — the word would come. Other
times it simply refused. He had been hit by a car when he was three and knocked into the side
of a building; he had remained unconscious for seven hours. Mom said it was that accident
which had caused the stutter. George sometimes got the feeling that his dad — and Bill
himself — was not so sure.
 The piece of paraffin in the bowl was almost entirely melted.
 The match-flame guttered lower, growing blue as it hugged the cardboard stick, and then it
went out. Bill dipped his finger into the liquid, jerked it out with a faint hiss. He smiled
apologetically at George. 'Hot,' he said. After a few seconds he dipped his finger in again and
began to smear the wax along the sides of the boat, where it quickly dried to a milky haze.
 'Can I do some?' George asked.
 'Okay. Just don't get any on the blankets or Mom'll kill you.'
 George dipped his finger into the paraffin, which was now very warm but no longer hot,
and began to spread it along the other side of the boat.
 'Don't put on so much, you a-hole!' Bill said. 'You want to sink it on its m-maiden cruise?'
 'I'm sorry.'
 'That's all right. Just g-go easy.'
 George finished the other side, then held the boat in his hands. It felt a little heavier, but
not much. 'Too cool,' he said. 'I'm gonna go out and sail it.'
 'Yeah, you do that,' Bill said. He suddenly looked tired — tired and still not very well.
 'I wish you could come,' George said. He really did. Bill sometimes got bossy after awhile,
but he always had the coolest ideas and he hardly ever hit. 'It's your boat, really.'
 'She,' Bill said. 'You call boats sh-she.'
 'She, then.'
 'I wish I could come, too,' Bill said glumly.
 'Well . . . ' George shifted from one foot to the other, the boat in his hands.
 'You put on your rain-stuff,' Bill said, 'or you'll wind up with the fluh-hu like me. Probably
catch it anyway, from my juh-germs.'
 'Thanks, Bill. It's a neat boat.' And he did something he hadn't done for a long time,
something Bill never forgot: he leaned over and kissed his brother's cheek.
 'You'll catch it for sure now, you a-hole,' Bill said, but he seemed cheered up all the same.
He smiled at George. 'Put all this stuff back, too. Or Mom'll have a b-bird.'
 'Sure.' He gathered up the waterproofing equipment and crossed the room, the boat perched
precariously on top of the paraffin box, which was sitting askew in the little bowl.
 'Juh juh-Georgie?'
 George turned back to look at his brother.
 'Be c-careful.'
 'Sure.' His brow creased a little. That was something your mom said, not your big brother.
It was as strange as him giving Bill a kiss. 'Sure I will.'
 He went out. Bill never saw him again.
3
Now here he was, chasing his boat down the left side of Witcham Street. He was running fast
but the water was running faster and his boat was pulling ahead. He heard a deepening roar
and saw that fifty yards farther down the hill the water in the gutter was cascading into a
stormdrain that was still open. Ii was a long dark semicircle cut into the curbing, and as
George watched, a stripped branch, its bark as dark and glistening as sealskin, shot into the
stormdrain's maw. It hung up there for a moment and then slipped down inside. That was
where his boat was headed.
 'Oh shit and Shinola!' he yelled, dismayed.
 He put on speed, and for a moment he thought he would catch the boat. Then one of his
feet slipped and he went sprawling, skinning one knee and crying out in pain. From his new
pavement-level perspective he watched his boat swing around twice, momentarily caught in
another whirlpool, and then disappear.
 'Shit and Shinola!' he yelled again, and slammed his fist down on the pavement. That hurt
too, and he began to cry a little. What a stupid way to lose the boat!
 He got up and walked over to the stormdrain. He dropped to his knees and peered in. The
water made a dank hollow sound as it fell into the darkness. It was a spooky sound. It
reminded him of —
 'Huh!' The sound was jerked out of him as if on a string, and he recoiled.
 There were yellow eyes in there: the sort of eyes he had always imagined but never
actually seen down in the basement. It's an animal, he thought incoherently, that's all it is,
some animal, maybe a housecat that got stuck down in there —
 Still, he was ready to run — would run in a second or two, when his mental switchboard
had dealt with the shock those two shiny yellow eyes had given him. He felt the rough
surface of the macadam under his fingers, and the thin sheet of cold water flowing around 
them. He saw himself getting up and backing away, and that was when a voice — a perfectly
reasonable and rather pleasant voice — spoke to him from inside the stormdrain.
 'Hi, Georgie,' it said.
 George blinked and looked again. He could barely credit what he saw; it was like
something from a made-up story, or a movie where you know the animals will talk and
dance. If he had been ten years older, he would not have believed what he was seeing, but he
was not sixteen. He was six.
 There was a clown in the stormdrain. The light in there was far from good, but it was good
enough so that George Denbrough was sure of what he was seeing. It was a clown, like in the
circus or on TV. In fact he looked like a cross between Bozo and Clarabell, who talked by
honking his (or was it her? — George was never really sure of the gender) horn on Howdy
Doody Saturday mornings — Buffalo Bob was just about the only one who could understand
Clarabell, and that always cracked George up. The face of the clown in the stormdrain was
white, there were funny tufts of red hair on either side of his bald head, and there was a big
clown-smile painted over his mouth. If George had been inhabiting a later year, he would
have surely thought of Ronald McDonald before Bozo or Clarabell.
 The clown held a bunch of balloons, all colors, like gorgeous ripe fruit in one hand.
 In the other he held George's newspaper boat.
 'Want your boat, Georgie?' The clown smiled.
 George smiled back. He couldn't help it; it was the kind of smile you just had to answer. 'I
sure do,' he said.
 The clown laughed. '"I sure do." That's good! That's very good! And how about a balloon?'
 'Well . . . sure!' He reached forward . . . and then drew his hand reluctantly back. 'I'm not
supposed to take stuff from strangers. My dad said so.'
 'Very wise of your dad,' the clown in the stormdrain said, smiling. How, George wondered,
could I have thought his eyes were yellow? They were a bright, dancing blue, the color of his
mom's eyes, and Bill's. 'Very wise indeed. Therefore I will introduce myself. I, Georgie, am
Mr Bob Gray, also known as Pennywise the Dancing Clown. Pennywise, meet George
Denbrough. George, meet Pennywise. And now we know each other. I'm not a stranger to
you, and you're not a stranger to me. Kee-rect?'
 George giggled. 'I guess so.' He reached forward again . . . and drew his hand back again.
'How did you get down there?'
 'Storm just bleeeew me away,' Pennywise the Dancing Clown said. 'It blew the whole
circus away. Can you smell the circus, Georgie?'
 George leaned forward. Suddenly he could smell peanuts! Hot roasted peanuts! And
vinegar! The white kind you put on your french fries through a hole in the cap! He could
smell cotton candy and frying doughboys and the faint but thunderous odor of wild-animal
shit. He could smell the cheery aroma of midway sawdust. And yet . . .
 And yet under it all was the smell of flood and decomposing leaves and dark stormdrain
shadows. That smell was wet and rotten. The cellar-smell.
 But the other smells were stronger.
 'You bet I can smell it,' he said.
 'Want your boat, Georgie?' Pennywise asked. 'I only repeat myself because you really do
not seem that eager.' He held it up, smiling. He was wearing a baggy silk suit with great big
orange buttons. A bright tie, electric-blue, flopped down his front, and on his hands were big
white gloves, like the kind Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck always wore.
 'Yes, sure,' George said, looking into the stormdrain.
 'And a balloon? I've got red and green and yellow and blue . . . . '
 'Do they float?'
 'Float?' The clown's grin widened. 'Oh yes, indeed they do. They float! And there's cotton
candy . . . . '
 George reached.
 The clown seized his arm.
 And George saw the clown's face change.
 What he saw then was terrible enough to make his worst imaginings of the thing in the
cellar look like sweet dreams; what he saw destroyed his sanity in one clawing stroke.
 'They float,' the thing in the drain crooned in a clotted, chuckling voice. It held George's
arm in its thick and wormy grip, it pulled George toward that terrible darkness where the
water rushed and roared and bellowed as it bore its cargo of storm debris toward the sea.
George craned his neck away from that final blackness and began to scream into the rain, to
scream mindlessly into the white autumn sky which curved above Derry on that day in the
fall of 1957. His screams were shrill and piercing, and all up and down Witcham Street
people came to then — windows or boiled out onto their porches.
 'They float,' it growled, 'they float, Georgie, and when you're down here with me, you'll
float, too — '
 George's shoulder socked against the cement of the curb and Dave Gardener, who had
stayed home from his job at The Shoeboat that day because of the flood, saw only a small
boy in a yellow rain-slicker, a small boy who was screaming and writhing in the gutter with
muddy water surfing over his face and making his screams sound bubbly.
 'Everything down here floats,' that chuckling, rotten voice whispered, and suddenly there
was a ripping noise and a flaring sheet of agony, and George Denbrough knew no more.
 Dave Gardener was the first to get there, and although he arrived only forty-five seconds
after the first scream, George Denbrough was already dead. Gardener grabbed him by the
back of the slicker, pulled him into the street . . . and began to scream himself as George's
body turned over in his hands. The left side of George's slicker was now bright red. Blood
flowed into the stormdrain from the tattered hole where the left arm had been. A knob of
bone, horribly bright, peeked through the torn cloth.
 The boy's eyes stared up into the white sky, and as Dave staggered away toward the others
already running pell-mell down the street, they began to fill up with rain.
4
Somewhere below, in the stormdrain that was already filled nearly to capacity with runoff
(there could have been no one down there, the County Sheriff would later exclaim to a Derry
News reporter with a frustrated fury so great it was almost agony; Hercules himself would
have been swept away in that driving current), George's newspaper boat shot onward through
nighted chambers and long concrete hallways that roared and chimed with water. For awhile
it ran neck-and-neck with a dead chicken that floated with its yellowy, reptilian toes pointed
at the dripping ceiling; then, at some junction east of town, the chicken was swept off to the
left while George's boat went straight.
 An hour later, while George's mother was being sedated in the Emergency Room at Derry
Home Hospital and while Stuttering Bill sat stunned and white and silent in his bed, listening
to his father sob hoarsely in the parlor where his mother had been playing Für Elise when
George went out, the boat shot out through a concrete loophole like a bullet exiting the
muzzle of a gun and ran at speed down a sluiceway and into an unnamed stream. When it
joined the boiling, swollen Penobscot River twenty minutes later, the first rifts of blue had
begun to show in the sky overhead. The storm was over.
 The boat dipped and swayed and sometimes took on water, but it did not sink; the two
brothers had waterproofed it well. I do not know where it finally fetched up, if ever it did;
perhaps it reached the sea and sails there forever, like a magic boat in a fairytale. All I know
is that it was still afloat and still running on the breast of the flood when it passed the
incorporated town limits of Derry, Maine, and there it passes out of this tale forever.
C H A P T E R 2
After the Festival (1984)
1
The reason Adrian was wearing the hat, his sobbing boyfriend would later tell the police, was
because he had won it at the Pitch Til U Win stall on the Bassey Park fairgrounds just six
days before his death. He was proud of it.
 'He was wearing it because he loved this shitty little town!' the boyfriend, Don Hagarty,
screamed at the cops.
 'Now, now — there's no need for that sort of language,' Officer Harold Gardener told
Hagarty. Harold Gardener was one of Dave Gardener's our sons. On the day his father had
discovered the lifeless, one-armed body of George Denbrough, Harold Gardener had been
five. On this day, almost twenty-seven years later, he was thirty-two and balding. Harold
Gardener recognized the reality of Don Hagarty's grief and pain, and at the same time found
it impossible to take seriously. This man — if you want to call him a man — was wearing
lipstick and satin pants so tight you could almost read the wrinkles in his cock. Grief or no
grief, pain or no pain, he was, after all, just a queer. Like his friend, the late Adrian Mellon.
 'Let's go through it again,' Harold's partner, Jeffrey Reeves, said. 'The two of you came out
of the Falcon and turned toward the Canal. Then what?'
 'How many times do I have to tell you idiots?' Hagarty was still screaming. 'They killed
him! They pushed him over the side! Just another day in Macho City for them!' Don Hagarty
began to cry.
 'One more time,' Reeves repeated patiently. 'You came out of the Falcon. Then what?'
2
In an interrogation room just down the hall, two Derry cops were speaking with Steve Dubay,
seventeen; in the Clerk of Probate's office upstairs, two more were questioning John 'Webby'
Garton, eighteen; and in the Chief of Police's office on the fifth floor, Chief Andrew
Rademacher and Assistant District Attorney Tom Boutillier were questioning fifteen-year-old
Christopher Unwin. Unwin, who wore faded jeans, a grease-smeared tee-shirt, and blocky
engineer boots, was weeping. Rademacher and Boutillier had taken him because they had
quite accurately assessed him as the weak link in the chain.
 'Let's go through it again,' Boutillier said in this office just as Jeffrey Reeves was saying
the same thing two floors down.
 'We didn't mean to kill him,' Unwin blubbered. 'It was the hat. We couldn't believe he was
still wearing the hat after, you know, after what Webby said the first time. And I guess we
wanted to scare him.'
 'For what he said,' Chief Rademacher interjected.
 'Yes.'
 'To John Garton, on the afternoon of the 17th.'
 'Yes, to Webby.' Unwin burst into fresh tears. 'But we tried to save him when we saw he
was in trouble . . . at least me and Stevie Dubay did . . . we didn't mean to kill him!'
 'Come on, Chris, don't shit us,' Boutillier said. 'You threw the little queer into the Canal.'
 'Yes, but — '
 'And the three of you came in to make a clean breast of things. Chief Rademacher and I
appreciate that, don't we, Andy?'
 'You bet. It takes a man to own up to what he did, Chris.'
 'So don't fuck yourself up by lying now. You meant to throw him over the minute you saw
him and his fag buddy coming out of the Falcon, didn't you?'
 'No!' Chris Unwin protested vehemently.
 Boutillier took a pack of Marlboros from his shirt pocket and stuck one in his mouth. He
offered the pack to Unwin. 'Cigarette?'
 Unwin took one. Boutillier had to chase the tip with a match in order to give him a light
because of the way Unwin's mouth was trembling.
 'But when you saw he was wearing the hat?' Rademacher asked.
 Unwin dragged deep, lowered his head so that his greasy hair fell in his eyes, and jetted
smoke from his nose, which was littered with blackheads.
 'Yeah,' he said, almost too softly to be heard.
 Boutillier leaned forward, brown eyes gleaming. His face was predatory but his voice was
gentle. 'What, Chris?'
 'I said yes. I guess so. To throw him in. But not to kill him.' He looked up at them, face
frantic and miserable and still unable to comprehend the stupendous changes which had taken
place in his life since he left the house to take in the last night of Derry's Canal Days Festival
with two of his buddies at seven-thirty the previous evening. 'Not to kill him!' he repeated.
'And that guy under the bridge . . . I still don't know who he was.'
 'What guy was that?' Rademacher asked, but without much interest. They had heard this
part before as well, and neither of them believed it — sooner or later men accused of murder
almost always drag out that mysterious other guy. Boutillier even had a name for it: he called
it the 'One-Armed Man Syndrome,' after that old TV series The Fugitive.
 'The guy in the clown suit,' Chris Unwin said, and shivered. 'The guy with the balloons.'
3
The Canal Days Festival, which ran from July 15th to July 21st, had been a rousing success,
most Derry residents agreed: a great thing for the city's morale, image . . . and pocketbook.
The week-long festival was pegged to mark the centenary of the opening of the Canal which
ran through the middle of downtown. It had been the Canal which had fully opened Derry to
the lumber trade in the years 1884 to 1910; it had been the Canal which had birthed Derry's
boom years.
 The town was spruced up from east to west and north to south. Potholes which some
residents swore hadn't been patched for ten years or more were neatly filled with hottop and
rolled smooth. The town buildings were refurbished on the inside, repainted on the outside.
The worst of the graffiti in Bassey Park — much of it coolly logical anti-gay statements such
as KILL ALL QUEERS and AIDS FROM GOD YOU HELLHOUND HOMOS!! — was sanded off the
benches and wooden walls of the little covered walkway over the Canal known as the Kissing
Bridge.
 A Canal Days Museum was installed in three empty store-fronts downtown, and filled with
exhibits by Michael Hanlon, a local librarian and amateur historian. The town's oldest
families loaned freely of their almost priceless treasures, and during the week of the festival
nearly forty thousand visitors paid a quarter each to look at eating-house menus from the
1890s, loggers' bitts, axes, and peaveys from the 1880s, children's toys from the 1920s, and
over two thousand photographs and nine reels of movie film of life as it had been in Derry
over the last hundred years.
 The museum was sponsored by the Derry Ladies' Society, which vetoed some of Hanlon's
proposed exhibits (such as the notorious tramp-chair from the 1930s) and photographs (such
as those of the Bradley Gang after the notorious shoot-out). But all agreed it was a great
success, and no one really wanted to see those gory old things anyway. It was so much better
to accentuate the positive and eliminate the negative, as the old song said.
 There was a huge striped refreshment tent in Derry Park, and band concerts there every
night. In Bassey Park there was a carnival with rides by Smokey's Greater Shows and games
run by local townfolk. A special tram-car circled the historic sections of the town every hour
on the hour and ended up at this gaudy and amiable money-machine.
 It was here that Adrian Mellon won the hat which would get him killed, the paper top-hat
with the flower and the band which said I § DERRY!
4
'I'm tired,' John 'Webby' Garton said. Like his two friends, he was dressed in unconscious
imitation of Bruce Springsteen, although if asked he would probably call Springsteen a wimp
or a fagola and would instead profess admiration for such 'bitchin' heavy-metal groups as Def
Leppard, Twisted Sister, or Judas Priest. The sleeves of his plain blue tee-shirt were torn off,
showing his heavily muscled arms. His thick brown hair fell over one eye — this touch was
more John Cougar Mellencamp than Springsteen. There were blue tattoos on his arms —
arcane symbols which looked as if they had been drawn by a child. 'I don't want to talk no
more.'
 'Just tell us about Tuesday afternoon at the fair,' Paul Hughes said. Hughes was tired and
shocked and dismayed by this whole sordid business. He thought again and again that it was
as if Derry Canal Days ended with one final event which everyone had somehow known
about but which no one had quite dared to put down on the Daily Program of Events. If they
had, it would have looked like this:
 Saturday, 9:00 P.M.: Final band concert featuring the Derry High School Band and the
Barber Shop Mello-Men.
 Saturday, 10:00 P.M.: Giant fireworks show.
 Saturday, 10:35 P.M.: Ritual sacrifice of Adrian Mellon officially ends Canal Days.
 'Fuck the fair,' Webby replied.
 'Just what you said to Mellon and what he said to you.'
 'Oh Christ.' Webby rolled his eyes.
 'Come on, Webby,' Hughes's partner said.
 Webby Garton rolled his eyes and began again.
5
Garton saw the two of them, Mellon and Hagarty, mincing along with their arms about each
other's waists and giggling like a couple of girls. At first he actually thought they were a
couple of girls. Then he recognized Mellon, who had been pointed out to him before. As he
looked, he saw Mellon turn to Hagarty . . . and they kissed briefly.
 'Oh, man, I'm gonna barf!' Webby cried, disgusted.
 Chris Unwin and Steve Dubay were with him. When Webby pointed out Mellon, Steve
Dubay said he thought the other fag was named Don somebody, and that he'd picked up a kid
from Derry High hitching and then tried to put a few moves on him.
 Mellon and Hagarty began to move toward the three boys again, walking away from the
Pitch Til U Win and toward the carny's exit. Webby Garton would later tell Officers Hughes
and Conley that his 'civic pride' had been wounded by seeing a fucking faggot wearing a hat
which said I § DERRY. It was a silly thing, that hat — a paper imitation of a top hat with a
great big flower sticking up from the top and nodding about in every direction. The silliness
of the hat apparently wounded Webby's civic pride even more.
 As Mellon and Hagarty passed, each with his arm linked about the other's waist, Webby
Garton yelled out: 'I ought to make you eat that hat, you fucking ass-bandit!'
 Mellon turned toward Garton, fluttered his eyes flirtatiously, and said: 'If you want
something to eat, hon, I can find something much tastier than my hat.'
 At this point Webby Garton decided he was going to rearrange the faggot's face. In the
geography of Mellon's face, mountains would rise and continents would drift. Nobody
suggested he sucked the root. Nobody.
 He started toward Mellon. Mellon's friend Hagarty, alarmed, attempted to pull Mellon
away, but Mellon stood his ground, smiling. Garton would later tell Officers Hughes and
Conley that he was pretty sure Mellon was high on something. So he was, Hagarty would
agree when this idea was passed on to him by Officers Gardener and Reeves. He was high on
two fried doughboys smeared with honey, on the carnival, on the whole day. He had been
consequently unable to recognize the real menace which Webby Garton represented.
 'But that was Adrian,' Don said, using a tissue to wipe his eyes and smearing the spangled
eyeshadow he was wearing. 'He didn't have much in the way of protective coloration. He was
one of those fools who think things really are going to turn out all right.'
 He might have been badly hurt there and then if Garton hadn't felt something tap his
elbow. It was a nightstick. He turned his head to see Officer Frank Machen, another member
of Derry's Finest.
 'Never mind, little buddy,' Machen told Garton. 'Mind your business and leave those little
gay boyos alone. Have some fun.'
 'Did you hear what he called me?' Garton asked body. He was now joined by Unwin and
Dubay — the two of them, smelling trouble, tried to urge Garton on up the midway, but
Garton shrugged them away, would have turned on them with his fists if they had persisted.
His masculinity had borne an insult which he felt must be avenged. Nobody suggested he
sucked the root. Nobody.
 'I don't believe he called you anything,' Machen replied. 'And you spoke to him first, I
believe. Now move on, sonny. I don't want to have to tell you again.'
 'He called me a queer!'
 'Are you worried you might be, then?' Machen asked, seeming to be honestly interested,
and Garton flushed a deep ugly red.
 During this exchange, Hagarty was trying with increasing desperation to pull Adrian
Mellon away from the scene. Now, at last, Mellon was going.
 'Ta-ta, love!' Adrian called cheekily over his shoulder.
 'Shut up, candy-ass,' Machen said. 'Get out of here.'
 Garton made a lunge at Mellon, and Machen grabbed him.
 'I can run you in, my friend,' Machen said, 'and the way you're acting, it might not be such
a bad idea.'
 'Next time I see you I'm gonna hurt you!' Garton bellowed after the departing pair, and
heads turned to stare at him. 'And if you're wearing that hat, I'm gonna kill you! This town
don't need no faggots like you!'